The Chrome update that looked like a fraud ring
Building Sentinel, an agent that investigates fraud on TigerGraph and knows when it doesn't know enough

By Kartikeya Yadav and Ankit Pandey, for the TigerGraph Hacker House Goa challenge.

[Image: Sentinel's case command center — https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ankit25bcs10610/TigerGraph-Agentic-Fraud-Investigation-HHGOA/main/docs/screenshots/command-center.png]


The first time we ran our fraud agent against the live graph, it found a fraud ring behind almost every alert.

Thirteen of the twenty benchmark cases came back labelled "undocumented coordinated abuse". The rings were enormous: 6,322 customers, 6,404 cards and 9,457 devices behind a single $128 purchase. Each answer file listed around 8,000 "connected" cards. On paper the agent was doing exactly what we built it to do: follow shared devices outward and flag coordination that no documented pattern explains.

It was wrong, and the reason turned into the most important thing we learned building this project. In this dataset a "device" is a fingerprint: device model, browser version, screen size. One profile, a Windows desktop running Chrome 66, was used by 253 different customers, every one of them in December, the month that browser version first appears in the data. Our agent had found a software release and called it a crime.

This post is about how we built Sentinel, an investigation agent on TigerGraph, and about the unglamorous part that made it trustworthy: teaching a graph agent which edges actually mean something.


THE PROBLEM

Fraud teams don't lack alerts. They lack time. For every flagged payment an analyst traces the customer's history, checks the device, looks for linked accounts, reads prior cases and policy, decides whether there is enough evidence to act, asks the customer if there isn't, and gets approval before blocking anything. Often the money has already gone.

The challenge asked for an agent that does that investigation: start from a trigger, gather evidence from the graph, identify the pattern, recognise when the evidence isn't enough, gather more through controlled actions, recommend the next best action under policy, explain itself, and remember past cases.

The dataset is built on the IEEE-CIS fraud data: 590,742 card transactions over six months, 13,553 customers, device and identity records for online payments, 5,565 closed investigations, a fraud policy with ten rules, and five documented fraud patterns. The brief also warned that not every pattern in the data is documented.


WHAT SENTINEL DOES

A trigger (a risk score, a customer's report, or an analyst's request) opens a case, and the agent runs an explicit loop:

1. Investigate. It calls graph tools on TigerGraph, one at a time, each with a reason.
2. Assess. Deterministic detectors look for the five documented patterns and for coordination none of them explains. A transparent weighted score turns the evidence into a fraud probability.
3. Decide whether to stop. Stopping rules check whether the evidence is strong and independent enough. If it isn't, the agent asks the customer to confirm the transaction or requests step-up authentication, and the case waits.
4. Recommend. Policy rules R1 to R10 produce the next best actions. Automatic ones run; declines, card blocks and report filings wait for an L1 or L2 approver.
5. Explain, record and remember. Every action cites the policy text behind it, every event goes into a hash chain, and the case is written back to TigerGraph, where later investigations can find it.

Here is a real trace, exactly as the agent recorded it, for benchmark case HHG-016: a customer reporting a $59.67 purchase they didn't make.

Step 1 – get_transaction: $59.67 online on card C09988-K1.
Step 2 – get_device_activity: 592 transactions from 158 customers on this device.
Step 3 – skip_device_tools: "More than 10 customers on a profile that names no specific device model, or whose customers are spread over months: a fingerprint shared by unrelated people, not one device."
Step 4 – get_customer_activity: 61 transactions, the customer's baseline.
Step 5 – find_ring_membership: the card sits in a graph-wide ring of 36 customers, 36 cards and 16 burst devices.
Step 6 – get_linked_closed_cases: none.
Step 7 – recall_graph_memory: no earlier investigations of the agent's own on these entities.
Step 8 – graphrag_retrieve: 4 policy passages and 3 case narratives, from TigerGraph vectors.

Six seconds, all of it through TigerGraph's MCP server. Notice step 3. The device looked like a lead, and the agent looked at it and dropped it. Then step 5 found the ring anyway, from a completely different direction. The rest of this post explains both.


THE GRAPH, AND THE AGENT'S TOOLS

The graph holds customers, cards, transactions, device profiles, email domains, billing regions, the bank's closed cases, and the agent's own investigations:

• 590,742 transactions
• 14,319 cards
• 13,553 customers
• 9,776 device profiles
• 5,565 closed cases
• 5,570 knowledge chunks (policy passages, pattern documents and case narratives, with embeddings)

Every question the agent asks is an installed GSQL query, called through the official TigerGraph MCP server. Each one is small, read-only and answers one question:

• get_transaction (agent_txn_profile): the flagged payment, its card, customer, region, email and device, and how many customers that device has served.
• get_customer_activity (agent_customer_activity): everything this customer did, across all their cards.
• get_device_activity (agent_device_activity): everyone else who used this device, and when.
• detect_device_ring (agent_device_ring): a bounded connected-component expansion around the device, within seven days of the alert.
• find_ring_membership (agent_fraud_communities): whether the card sits in one of the graph-wide rings.
• get_linked_closed_cases (agent_linked_closed_cases): closed cases on this customer, their cards, or the cards they are connected to.
• get_closed_cases_by_pattern (agent_closed_cases_by_pattern): closed cases with the same pattern, and their outcomes.
• recall_graph_memory (agent_prior_investigations): the agent's own earlier investigations on these entities.
• graphrag_retrieve (vector search over KnowledgeChunk): the policy passages and prior-case narratives closest to this case.
• agent_ring_profile, at queue level: what a ring's cards actually did.

An LLM planner (GPT-4o-mini) picks the next tool from the ones that make sense at that moment, and must give a reason, for example: "The device has been shared with 23 other customers, indicating a potential fraud ring that needs to be investigated." It can only choose from an allow-list, within a step budget. An unknown tool, a malformed reply or a provider error hands the choice to a rule planner, and the trace says so.


WHEN IS A SHARED DEVICE EVIDENCE?

Back to the Chrome 66 problem. "Two customers used the same device" is one of the strongest signals in fraud investigation, and one of the easiest to get catastrophically wrong. We measured the device profiles across the whole graph:

• 4,951 profiles were used by exactly one customer.
• 2,267 by two or three.
• 116 by between 100 and 1,000 customers.

Those 116 are generic fingerprints: "Windows, Chrome, 1920x1080". Walk through one and you reach everyone who bought the same laptop. Our first ring expansion did exactly that.

First fix: count the customers. A device seen with more than ten customers doesn't identify a device. That removed the giant rings, but it also threw away the most interesting case in the benchmark. HHG-014 is an analyst's request: "several cards this month show purchases from the same unusual device profile." That device had 52 customers, so the rule discarded it.

Second fix: look at timing. HHG-014's device served 24 of its 52 customers in one week. That's a burst, not a steady fingerprint. We treated concentrated devices as evidence, and the benchmark promptly produced seven "undocumented" cases, including three whose devices were plain desktop Chrome profiles. The device behind HHG-013 had 253 customers, all in December: the first month Chrome 66 appears in the data. A new browser version packs hundreds of people into its first weeks. Timing alone can't tell a release from a ring.

Third fix: ask what the profile names. Putting the devices side by side made the difference obvious:

• HHG-014: SM-G935F Build/NRD90M, mobile, Chrome 62 for Android. 52 customers, 24 of them in the alert week.
• HHG-013: "Windows", desktop, Chrome 66. 253 customers, 153 in the alert week.
• HHG-017: "Windows", desktop, Chrome 65, 1920x1080. 299 customers, 130 in the alert week.
• HHG-016: "Windows", desktop, Edge 16. 158 customers, 34 in the alert week.

HHG-014's device names one specific phone build, a Samsung Galaxy S7 edge on one firmware. The others name only an operating system. So the agent now asks three questions of every device: how many customers ever used it, how many used it within seven days of the alert, and whether the profile names a specific device model. The rule itself is four lines of Python:

    def generic_device(total_customers, window_customers, device_info):
        if total_customers <= 10:
            return False     # a handful of customers: always specific
        return not specific_model(device_info) or window_customers < 0.25 * total_customers

A blank or "Windows" profile with many customers is never ring evidence, however busy it is. A specific build serving many cards in the week of the alert is. With that rule, HHG-014 expands into a ring of 38 cards on 12 devices within seven days, and is labelled undocumented. The three Chrome rollouts go back to being ordinary alerts, and HHG-016's Edge profile is skipped, with the reason written into the trace.

The ring expansion itself (agent_device_ring) follows the same discipline. It only walks transactions within seven days of the alert, never expands through a generic device beyond the one under investigation, and stops at 60 cards. For HHG-004, a card-not-present case, the old version returned 6,322 customers. The new one returns 2.


FINDING, AND DESCRIBING, THE PATTERN NOBODY DOCUMENTED

The per-case ring search only sees the alert's own device, and HHG-016's own device was generic. So the agent also looks at the graph as a whole.

agent_fraud_communities runs weakly connected components by label propagation in GSQL, over cards and "burst devices": devices used by three to ten customers within 72 hours, which is how one physical device serving a stack of stolen cards behaves. The heart of it is one GSQL selection:

    shared = SELECT d FROM measured:d
             WHERE d.@users.size() >= min_device_customers          -- 3
               AND d.@users.size() <= max_device_customers          -- 10
               AND datetime_diff(d.@last, d.@first) <= max_span_hours * 3600   -- 72 hours
             POST-ACCUM d.@shared = TRUE, d.@cc += getvid(d);

Getting the definition right took measurement, not intuition. Allowing any shared device with up to five customers produced one component of 1,881 customers. Counting three customers inside any 72-hour window produced one of 1,085. The strict version finds eight distinct rings across all 590,742 transactions, of 36, 18, 6, 6, 5, 4, 3 and 3 customers.

A connected component is not an explanation, though. So agent_ring_profile summarises what each ring's cards actually did on their shared devices, and the agent quotes it. The largest ring reads:

"73 transactions by 36 cards on 16 shared devices, 14 of them named Android phone builds; 100% online; 99% product C; median $31.70, total $3,386.49."

Small online purchases of one product, from a pool of phones that each served several unrelated cards within hours. None of the five documented patterns describes that, so it is labelled a candidate undocumented pattern.

Then the interesting part: two unrelated benchmark alerts sit inside it. HHG-011 is a customer's dispute that the agent classified as card testing (three small authorizations averaging $5.13 within an hour, then a $92.87 purchase). HHG-016 is the $59.67 dispute from the trace above. Two customers, two alerts, one ring, and each investigation cites it.

[Image: Graph intelligence explorer — https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ankit25bcs10610/TigerGraph-Agentic-Fraud-Investigation-HHGOA/main/docs/screenshots/graph-intelligence.png]


MEMORY THAT LIVES IN THE GRAPH

The brief asks for an agent that uses past investigations to improve future decisions. We made the graph the memory.

Every investigation is written back to TigerGraph as an InvestigationCase vertex, with edges to the flagged transaction, the customer, the card, the affected transactions, the connected cards and devices, and similar closed cases. When a new case opens, agent_prior_investigations walks those edges backwards from the current customer, card, the cards of its ring, and its devices:

    by_card      = SELECT ic FROM cards:k   -(<ON_CARDS)-         InvestigationCase:ic ...
    by_connected = SELECT ic FROM cards:k   -(<CONNECTED_CARD)-   InvestigationCase:ic ...
    by_device    = SELECT ic FROM devices:d -(<CONNECTED_DEVICE)- InvestigationCase:ic ...
    found = by_customer UNION by_card UNION by_connected UNION by_device;
    found = SELECT ic FROM found:ic WHERE ic.opened_at < before_ts AND ic.case_id != exclude_case;

The last line matters most: an investigation only ever learns from cases opened before it. The benchmark runs the cases in the order they were opened, so each one sees exactly what an analyst would have had at the time.

On December 29 the agent opened HHG-011 and recalled:

"This agent's earlier investigation HHG-016 (fraud, undocumented, opened 2016-12-12) is linked: its card is in this card's ring: C09988-K1."

A different customer, a different card, seventeen days earlier, linked through the ring. An earlier fraud conclusion counts like a linked confirmed case in the score. In the same way, HHG-019 recalls the agent's fraud finding on HHG-018, whose card sits in its ring.

One detail we learned the hard way: writing a case again adds new edges but keeps the old ones. After a few runs, stale edges from an earlier, noisier version linked almost every case to every other. Now each case's outgoing edges are cleared (agent_reset_case_edges) before it is rewritten, so memory reflects the latest investigation, not every past attempt.


KNOWING WHEN IT DOESN'T KNOW

Most of what makes an investigation defensible happens when the evidence is ambiguous, so we designed that path first.

Stopping rules. The agent stops gathering evidence only when the fraud probability is strongly one way with at least two independent pieces of evidence, when a customer's answer settles the question, or when further investigation is unlikely to change the decision. Otherwise it asks.

It chooses its question by value of information. Before asking for anything, the agent simulates every possible answer to every request it could make (the customer denies, confirms or doesn't reply; step-up passes, fails or isn't completed), runs each through the full assessment, and asks for the evidence whose answers lead to the most different decisions. The analyst sees every branch before the answer arrives.

It shows its recommendation before and after the evidence. HHG-010 is a $1,000.03 risk alert the graph can't settle on its own. Before any evidence, the agent recommends escalating to an analyst. It asks the customer and requests step-up authentication; when the answers come back as no reply and not completed, it adds monitoring the card and declining the transaction (at L1), and records why: "Step-up authentication evidence (not completed) moved fraud probability to 0.34. Added: monitor card, decline transaction."

Every verdict has its counterfactual. A waterfall shows how many points each signal added to the probability, and marks a signal "decisive" if removing it alone would change the verdict, so the analyst can see whether a call rests on one fact or five.

[Image: Decisions before and after the evidence — https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ankit25bcs10610/TigerGraph-Agentic-Fraud-Investigation-HHGOA/main/docs/screenshots/decisions.png]


WHERE THE LLM IS, AND WHERE IT ISN'T

We drew a hard line. The language model never computes the probability, never picks an action and never approves anything. It does two jobs:

• Choosing the next tool, from an allow-list, with a reason, falling back to rules if its answer isn't valid.
• Writing the narrative, from cited evidence only. It receives the evidence, the policy passages GraphRAG retrieved, and the actions, and every identifier it writes must appear in that context. Our validator throws the narrative away otherwise.

GraphRAG runs vector search over the KnowledgeChunk vertices in TigerGraph, which hold policy passages, pattern documents and closed-case narratives, and labels every citation with the method that found it.


CONTROLS, AND PROOF

• Approvals. Every action carries a route (auto, L1 or L2) derived from policy and exposure. Card blocks and report filings wait for a recorded human decision.
• Receipts. Approved actions run through simulated bank systems (card platform, customer messaging, case management, regulatory filing), and each returns a receipt.
• A verifiable record. Every event (each graph call, assessment, evidence request, response, approval and receipt) extends a SHA-256 hash chain, and the browser recomputes every hash before it shows "Case record verified".

[Image: Audit chain verified in the browser — https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ankit25bcs10610/TigerGraph-Agentic-Fraud-Investigation-HHGOA/main/docs/screenshots/audit-verified.png]


HOW WELL DOES IT WORK?

We'll be straight about the numbers.

On the 20 benchmark cases, live on TigerGraph. Every answer was produced through TigerGraph MCP, written back to the graph, and passes our output validator (entity IDs, action routes, legitimate-case rules). Before and after the device work:

• Cases labelled undocumented: 13 in the first live run, 3 in the final run.
• Largest "ring" behind one alert: 6,322 customers, then 38.
• Size of the answer files: about 8,000 lines each, then 5,310 lines for all 20 together.
• Valid answers written to the graph: 20 of 20 in both runs.

The three remaining undocumented cases each rest on evidence an analyst can check: one phone build serving 24 customers in a week (HHG-014), a card inside the 36-card ring (HHG-016), and a 33-customer ring around a rare device (HHG-019). HHG-011 is card testing at 0.99, HHG-004 is card-not-present fraud, and the customer disputes are settled as fraud with the dispute cited. Cases the graph can't settle stay uncertain and go to the evidence-request branch instead of straight to a block.

Against the bank's history. We replayed 49 closed cases, sampled evenly across the seven analyst labels, hiding the case under test and every case opened after it. Pattern recall was 71% for card testing (100% precision in the sample), 43% for out-of-region use, 29% for card-not-present from a new device, 14% for account takeover and for undocumented activity, and 0% for plain card-not-present fraud. The agent settled only four cases without asking for more evidence and kept the rest uncertain. That was measured before the device work above, and it is a modest number. We'd rather publish it than a flattering one.

The honest limitation: the live graph we benchmarked on doesn't yet carry the identity signals (new-device flags, proxy and match status) on its transactions, so the new-device and account-takeover detectors can fire in our CSV replay but not live. We wrote a loader that adds them over MCP.


WHAT WE LEARNED

• A graph agent needs to know which edges mean something. A vertex shared by 250 people is not evidence of anything. The code that decides whether a device is one physical device or a fingerprint changed more answers than any other part of the project, and it came from looking at the data, not from the model.
• Graphs make the second question cheap. "Who else used this device, and who else used their devices, in the same week?" is two hops in TigerGraph and a painful self-join anywhere else. Our best evidence came from the second and third hop.
• Measure the definition before you trust it. Every version of our ring definition sounded reasonable. Only running it across 590,000 transactions showed which ones produced one blob of 1,881 customers.
• Uncertainty is a feature. Designing the "not enough evidence yet" path first made the agent more trustworthy than tuning it for confident verdicts.
• Keep facts and prose apart. Letting the LLM only narrate cited facts kept the explanations readable without letting them drift from the evidence.


WHAT'S NEXT

• Load the identity signals onto every transaction in the live graph and re-run the calibration, so the new-device and account-takeover detectors are measured on TigerGraph, not only on CSVs.
• Run Louvain from the TigerGraph Graph Data Science library alongside our connected components, and track how rings grow over time.
• Connect real customer messaging and step-up providers in place of the labelled, simulated responses.


TRY IT

The code, the GSQL queries, the 20 benchmark answers and the demo are open:

Code and benchmark answers: https://github.com/ankit25bcs10610/TigerGraph-Agentic-Fraud-Investigation-HHGOA
Demo video: (add link)

Sentinel runs on TigerGraph Savanna with the official TigerGraph MCP server, a FastAPI backend in Python, and a Next.js, React and Cytoscape.js workbench, with 167 deterministic tests. Thanks to the TigerGraph team and @TigerGraphDB for Hacker House Goa.

#TigerGraph #GraphDatabase #FraudDetection #AIAgents #GraphRAG #HackerHouseGoa
